I've never met lots of any other Jeff
team use science not sorcery to keep the
ice cream soft not rock solid
so it's sub-zero temperatures they can
make its whoop swirl and stand up my mix
is about to be frozen inside this
stainless steel barrel as the ice cream
mix hits that Cole Farrell it freezes
and then a knife scrapes the ice cream
off the inside of that barrel and mixes
it back into the ice cream mix so at
that point we're starting to create very
small ice crystals the constant scraping
stops the crystals growing too big big
ice crystals would make the ice cream
crunchy not creamy it's not just ice is
it at the same time we're introducing is
air the secret ingredient in soft ice
cream let's hear it again that's the
secret of making creamy ice cream you
need more ice crystals and small air
bubbles and that allows you to get the
ice cream out the freezer and eat it
straight to right nice and smooth but
about me did frosty one of the clues to
soft ice cream here comes the real
secret the exact recipe of air ice
crystals sugars and fats in this mix
means it never actually freezes even at
minus 20 jeff says that's why it really
stays soft
effectively the sugars act as an
antifreeze and stop the water from
freezing so is that the same sort of
thing as when you put grit or salt on
the road absolutely that's exactly the
same principle the ice cream spurting
from these machines is a frosty minus
six yet still so soft it can form these
fantastical shapes
it's the fine-tuning of all three
elements the ice crystals the air
bubbles and the sugar solution that make
your possible and that's why I couldn't
make ice cream like this in the barn
you